Thank you to our worship team for leading us powerfully and beautifully into God's presence.
And I want to begin my time today just getting to open the word of the Lord for each and every one of us.
If I haven't a chance to meet you or get to know you all, my name is Dave Ripper.
And I've served here at Crossway for seven years in just a couple of weeks.
And as the lead pastor and always grateful
for the calling that God has placed upon us in our church and thankful to be here.
And if you don't know me, probably the most important thing to know about me, what makes my identity my identity is that by God's grace, I'm a disciple of Jesus Christ.
I believe that we as disciples are not just called to know what Jesus taught, but to live our very lives the way Jesus would do it if he were us.
And that is more than anything
What wakes me up every day is trying to be a disciple like that to make disciples and I've been married to my wife Erin for nearly 20 years She's upstairs helping with kids way.
She'd love to be able to say hi as well I've got three great kids and grateful to have a calling since I was about 13 years old to pastor and have been trying to do that as faithfully as I can and variety of ways and
grateful to have a chance to share even a lot of the good things that God is doing in our community through writing and through speaking to other churches as well.
And by God's grace, even had some good years and still continue to have gotten to share the gospel with some people that are pretty good at hockey as well.
So one of the verses that really
It makes my calling what it is.
It was delivered passage during my ordination ceremony.
And you get ordained.
It's kind of a way to give you the title Reverend.
And it feels like an oxymoron to say my official title is Reverend Ripper.
Doesn't quite seem to go together.
But God has a good sense of humor like that.
But the text that was preached during that day was Colossians 1, 28 to 29, where Paul says, it's Christ we proclaim.
Warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom that we might present everyone fully mature in Christ.
For this I struggle and toil with all his energy that he so powerfully works within me.
I remember really loving that verse because I thought if I can just teach well enough then people would be fully mature disciples of Jesus.
And then I got in the ministry long enough and saw actually it's gonna be toil, it's gonna be struggle, it's not going to be easy and warning and conversations are all gonna come as part of it.
But one of the reasons we've gravitated and I've gravitated toward this book of Jeremiah in this season, it's maybe one of the least enjoyable books of the Bible to read and it's fitting from one of the least enjoyable times of the year for a lot of people with the cold and the dark.
But Jeremiah has a resilient faith.
that he serves an audience of one.
Next week in our text, we'll see how there were some popular preachers of the day that were good at telling people the things they wanted to hear.
And Jeremiah was tempted and given the opportunity to kind of follow that path, but he says, I am going to follow and obey the voice of the Lord no matter what impact or cost that has for me.
He lives out a resilient faith.
I think I look at the fruit of Jeremiah's ministry.
The people didn't listen to what he said.
He tried to warn people of them not being sent into exile by the Babylonians if they would just listen and obey God.
And they didn't listen and obey God and got sent into exile from an outside standpoint.
His ministry looked like a failure.
But God does not call any of us to be successful.
He calls us to be faithful.
And Jeremiah gives
each and every one of us a vision for what that can look like.
There's some challenging passages to this book, but Jeremiah I think had an incredible mind, a artist's sort of soul, it's laced and woven with poetry, metaphor, so many rich images that are designed to try and help people see reality as it is and not simply the way they would like it to be.
There's an old adage that says, people don't see things as they are,
They see them as they are.
And so we struggle with self-deception.
Somebody once handed me a book.
It was an assignment for my doctoral work, but it was about the spirituality of self-deception.
And the back of the book said, if you think you're self-deceived, you need to read this book.
If you don't think you're self-deceived, you really need to read this book.
And I think that is a lot of what God is using Jeremiah to do to awaken the people to see things as they really are, not just the way we want them to be.
And perhaps one of the most famous images that God gives Jeremiah is the calls we're gonna look at today in Jeremiah 18, one through six, to go down to the potter's house.
We're gonna see that God is the ultimate potter, we are his clay.
And the quality of clay, as we're gonna see today, determines what the potter can do with it.
And in a similar fashion, the quality of our lives helps determine what God can do with us.
So a big question that we need to reflect on is how moldable, how shapeable, how changeable am I?
Think for a moment, when's the last time
You experience significant change in maybe your character, your attitude, the ways you interacted with people or even with God.
I was just with somebody this past week who's really been on a wonderful spiritual journey.
And as God is calling him forward, he's also being called back at the same time to look at some of the ways his upbringing and things shaped how he just defaults in how he lives.
And he shared an amazing testimony that his wife told him,
After a year of you following Jesus like this, you are 80% less angry than you used to be.
And that's pretty significant growth.
And he's looking at what would it look like now for me to be, you know, 90% less angry than I used to be.
When's the last time you've experienced change like that for the good that perhaps was positively noted by others?
I think this is the kind of people God wants us to be, people he can form and shape and mold to fulfill the calling that God has placed in our lives.
And for Jeremiah, he was called in this way to a very hard calling, but hard calling is a high calling in God's economy.
So I wanna look at this text just in depth, verse by verse here for the next moments, Jeremiah 18, one through six.
And one of the things that unites us across our three congregations and our online campuses is that we are committed to teaching the same scripture each week.
None of our messages are uniform, but we do want them to be united in spirit and tone that we would hear together how God inviting all of Crossway Christian Church to grow and follow the way of Jesus together.
And so I would invite us, if you're able and willing to stand as we hear the very word of Lord,
from Jeremiah 18, one through six.
And I just invite us now just to offer our attention fully to God to hear His word.
Every single day that I come before the scriptures is always a lot on my mind.
Today there's a lot that's heavy on my heart, but no matter what my circumstances are, I wanna attune my ear to hear the voice of God
in this very moment.
So speak, Lord, for your servants are listening.
The word of the Lord from Jeremiah 18.
This is the word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord.
Go down to the potter's house and there I will give you a message.
So I went down to the potter's house and I saw him working at the wheel.
But the pot he was shaping from the clay was marred in his hands.
So the potter formed it into another pot
shaping it has seemed best to him.
Then the word of the Lord came to me, he said, can I not do with you, Israel, as this potter does, declares the Lord, like clay in the hand of the potter, so are you in my hand, Israel.
It's the very word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
You may be seated.
So a word comes to Jeremiah.
That tells me Jeremiah is in a posture to be able to hear, to be able to receive what God would have.
I wonder how open are we through our attention, through our posture to be able to hear and discern when God is stirring our hearts this very day.
Jeremiah hears and then God tells him something that might be a little unusual.
Go down to the potter's house and then I will give you my message.
A lot of us, we would rather know before we go.
Before I'm gonna go listen to what you say, God, you gotta really spell out for me why you're saying what you're saying, and then I will do it.
But in God's kingdom, that's kind of inverted.
We are called to go even before we know.
In other words, sometimes it's obedience that paves the way for us to actually hear and learn and understand.
Are there things that God's told you to do?
But since you don't have a full explanation and understanding about why he's calling you or doing what he's saying for you to do that you're not listening to, is there places in our lives where God's just saying, just listen.
I think about that as parents all the time.
You just wish, hey, could you just listen without getting an explanation from me?
Trust me, trust me, trust me.
And Jeremiah, trust the Lord.
He goes down to the potter's house.
So Jeremiah was living in Jerusalem and Jerusalem sits up on this hill and out of reverence for God's holy place, you always go up to Jerusalem.
And anytime you leave Jerusalem, even if you're going to a place that ultimately is in higher elevation, you go down to that place.
And he goes down to this potter's house, which was a common place in communities.
I would be like going to the auto body shop, go down to the artisan store here, go to this place.
And it's amazing just to think about pottery for a moment, how revolutionary this was for human society and civilization.
Up until this time when pottery was invented, you had to be a nomadic community.
You had no way of really storing up water or easily be able to store up food for yourselves or other supplies.
So you kind of migrated from place to place depending on what season of the year it was in.
But now this was revolutionary and that kind of like
Technology is something Jeremiah uses a lot, talking about how our pots can't hold water.
Later on in this chapter, he's gonna smash these clay pots and say, you are hardened like this, this is what God is going to do to you.
But it's fascinating when he gets there, what does he witness?
It says, the pot he was shaping from the clay, the potter was, was marred in his hands.
So the potter formed it into another pot, shaping it.
as it seemed best to him.
God, of course, is the potter in this illustration, and I think this tells a very important principle, that when pottery is not taking the form, the clay is not taking the form and shape that it should, the potter doesn't just discard it, doesn't just get rid of it.
The potter is able to refashion it into the best that he can with it.
And I think for a lot of us as Christians, even as followers of Jesus, we might think, I've made too many mistakes.
If you look at my life and my story, it doesn't seem like it's the kind of life or story that God could do great things through.
Too much brokenness, too much history, too much past, maybe too much disobedience, I'm just not that kind of person.
But God never gets rid of the clay.
He does invite us to be reshaped and reformed that we might reflect the image that He would have our lives to take.
That is really good news.
I think of some of the great spiritual writers in the early church, early centuries, they had a way of saying, every day I make a new beginning.
Maybe today is the day you make a new beginning because in the hands of the potter, God's not done with you.
Even if your life has not taken the shape that you think it should have or what God might want, God's not done.
God's not done.
God's not done, He continues to work.
Then the word of the Lord came to me, Jeremiah says.
And then the Lord said, can I not do with you, Israel, as the potter does?
Like clay in the hand of the potter, so you are in my hand, Israel.
God wants to do something great with our lives, but as we shared, the quality of what the potter can do,
is determined by the quality of the clay.
Now, I could use some notes here for this portion because I don't know that much about pottery.
I've never really worked with it.
Anybody here into pottery or know some things with that?
All right, so I'm going to ask for a lot of grace because I'm
really stepping out of my area of expertise.
But what's fascinating about our team, and as we collaborate together on messages and sermons, I discovered something from my colleague, Anson Tebow, who was the Milford High School soccer coach.
Some of you guys have had him and know Anson, but, you know, Anson is a guy really in the sports, credible athlete and a great pastor, and I had no idea until this week
that like he has a real fondness for pottery.
I mean, completely not on brand for Anson whatsoever.
So into it, he's preaching at the pond and he's showing an image that his wife took of him on their honeymoon.
She knows he likes it so much that when they were in Slovenia, she arranged a special pottery thing for him to enjoy.
on their honeymoon.
And I was reading through his sermon ahead of time and he's using phrases like throw on the wheel.
Like, is that, does that make sense?
Yeah, throw on the wheel.
I'm like, what, what?
Throw on the wheel.
But from Aaron, from Anson's exegesis of all things pottery, he says there are kind of three key reasons clay does not become as moldable and shapeable as we would want.
First,
There are air pockets in it.
If there are air pockets in the clay, am I going to give me some affirmationaries?
I really, all right, thank you.
If there are air pockets in it, it will fall apart as it is thrown on the wheel.
If there is a lot of grain in it, it will be very rigid and harder to form.
It could also cut your hands as a potter.
That's all here today.
Or if it's too dry, this one makes sense to me,
it won't move and it will crack.
And so what kind of clay would be good?
Clay that has a lot of elasticity from what I am aware of, where it's not going to break, but it's moldable and shapeable, it's wet enough, it's ready enough to be molded.
And I love that idea of elasticity when it comes to our own faith.
We need to have convictions about our Christianity and our beliefs that are unchanging.
and yet at the same time, we want to be people whose heart and character can be formed and shaped.
And I believe different times and different seasons of life, we are more moldable or less moldable.
I think about a New Testament parallel to this teaching.
And I think it's Matthew 13 would be it, where Jesus gives the parable of the soil sand.
There's a sower who has God scatter seed very recklessly almost because he wants seed to grow and all everywhere.
But some of it falls on the rocky soil, some of it on the path, some of it on the thorns and then some of it in the good soil.
You know, the path is just hardened.
It's kind of like that clay that will just break.
I think the rocky soil going out on a limb here could be like the air pockets in clay.
It just doesn't really work.
It falls apart too quickly.
It doesn't grow.
The thorns might be like that clay that has some too much grain in it.
It's kind of formable in shape, but ultimately it doesn't grow.
But that clay that has elasticity is like the good soil, the right conditions for the right kind of growth to occur.
I love that parable, and I used to think I had that parable master.
Since I'm a believer in Jesus, I must be the good soil.
Now there's parts of that that is true.
If you are a believer in Jesus, you can have assurance of your salvation.
That's not gonna be lost.
God who began a good and work in you, he will carry it onto completion.
So when it comes to your eternal destiny, yes,
You have assurance that you will be with God forever.
And in some ways that makes you like that good soil or that good clay.
But one of my seminary teachers made me rethink about this parable a little bit.
He said, while our salvation is assured if we are believers in Jesus, every single day we have the choice what kind of clay or what kind of soil we are going to be.
Sometimes when there's a lot of hard things that take place in life, we can be like that path that just hardened.
We don't hear, we don't receive.
I think it's a lot of what God's people were back in Jeremiah's day.
Sometimes we can be like that rocky soil that we kind of get it, but then pretty soon since there's not enough depth in the soil, it loses the seed doesn't grow.
Most times if I'm not the good soil, I'm probably like the
the seed that falls amidst the weeds where it starts to grow, it looks really good, but somehow the cares and concerns of the world choke out the life of that plant.
And so every single day to be the kind of person I hope that God could use to do what He would want, to say what He would want, to lead how He would want, to follow Him as a disciple, I want to make the choice, Lord, today, would you help me be this good soil?
today, would you see anything in my life that could be causing me to be like hardened soil, that could be like thorny ground?
And I think this is the hard thing for a lot of us as Christians.
Have you known folks, or maybe you've been this person where, man, you've been on good stretches or in certain situations, man, people see nothing but the good, but then other circumstances can arise and you maybe veer off the path or
Maybe don't follow Jesus with the fruit of the spirit like you would intend.
It can be very disappointing.
I've had leaders in my life that I really respected and went through some really hard seasons and really let me down.
And that's painful and it's hard.
And I'm sure there have been seasons in my life where I haven't been as good of soil as I would like to be.
But what do we think really gets in the way of us growing to be the people that God wants us to be?
And I just want to share just one simple image that's always been helpful for me and also convicting.
A lot of researchers that look at how do people's lives really change.
They say here is the direction of change.
It's called the J-curve.
You familiar with this?
Say you're here and growth looks like here.
We wish
We could just grow up and to the right.
But often, what happens?
Things have to get harder before they get better.
We got to go through trial.
We have to go through difficulty.
If I want to, I had holding this up here.
It makes me remember I had torn labrum surgery after basketball injuries.
And I want to not have my shoulder pop out of socket all the time.
And what do I need to do?
go through a very painful surgery, very, very painful physical therapy and recovery in order for it to maybe be like this at best case scenario.
But I hope my character is changed a lot better than my shoulder.
And I think we resist the hardest, often the very things we need the most.
I think that's why God's people ultimately hear this powerful metaphor from Jeremiah has given to the Lord.
And you know what they respond with?
hard-heartedness, hard clay.
We are not going to listen to this.
We're gonna do things our way anyway.
They were not moldable.
They were not shapeable.
And I hope that will be a cautionary tale for us that we would never be content at arriving at who we are now, but always be ever pursuing being people who are more and more like Jesus.
Believe that is what our world needs most.
One of those other life verses that I've lived by as a disciple says in 1 John 2, 6, whoever claims to live in Him must walk as Jesus walked, or live as Jesus lived.
And every day I love to look at Jesus' life in comparison to my own.
Where's the gap?
And it's a lot bigger than that.
Lord, I need Your help to help me be more like Jesus.
But also, what can I do to arrange my life by your grace to become the kind of person who might live today the way Jesus would do it if he was me?
And when a whole group of people, a whole church would commit to that, it's amazing what God can do.
So what kind of clay are you today?
What kind of soil are you today?
I pray that the Lord would make us
the highest quality of clay that he could do the most with, that we would be people formed and shaped always in the making to be like Jesus, for God's greater glory, for the good of the world around us, and for our joy.
Would you pray with me?
God, thank you for this chance just to study your word today.
Thank you for the series of Jeremiah that has been convicting and challenging and also freeing
Lord, may we learn from the people of the past who did not listen.
So every day God, I pray that you would give us ears to hear, hearts to receive, and eagerness to obey.
Lord, if anyone's here today and maybe feels like they are clay that just can't be used any longer, Lord, I pray
that we would rediscover your vision, that you can reshape us.
So we say, have your way with us, little Lord.
I just wanna lift up a prayer right now.
One of the ancient Christian prayers that says, I am no longer my own but yours.
Put me to what you will, rank me with whom you will.
Put me to doing, put me to suffering.
Let me be employed for you or laid aside for you.
Let me be full for you or empty for you.
Let me have all things, let me have nothing.
I freely and wholeheartedly yield all things, every part of my life to your pleasure and disposal, oh God.
And now, Father, Son and Holy Spirit, you are mine.
And I am yours.
We are yours, Lord.
We are yours.
It's in Jesus' mighty name that everyone prayed together and said.
Amen.